So, you might have set up your open
claw, your Hermes agent, or maybe even
some derivative of my Claude Claude
system. And it's running, but you've yet
to derive any form of actual business
value from it. Because the truth is, a
lot of creators, including myself, show
you the final finished product of what
the ideal agentic OS system looks like.
But in reality, the magic is in all the
grunt work that happens behind the
curtain. And this is the grunt work that
isn't very sexy to show on YouTube,
which is why very few actually talk
about it. So, this video is meant to
help you get your house in order so you
can take advantage of the AI opportunity
and [music] properly use these kinds of
systems and finally gain leverage with
them. So, if you have an idle or
underutilized personal assistant or
agentic OS system, then you're going to
want to watch this till the very end.
Because I'm first going to walk you
through the mental model and mindset
shift that you need to focus on the data
before you worry about any form of
dashboards or pretty features. And on
top of that, I'm going to give you the
exact skill we give all of our clients
that we consult for to help them and to
help you self-serve to make sense of all
the files, integrations, APIs, [music]
and CLIs that you might need to fully
get the leverage that you want. And I'll
finally walk you through some tactical
tips that no one else is focusing on,
probably because they've only set it up
for themselves, not other businesses.
All right, so big picture, this is the
full cross-section of an agentic
operating system. And typically, you are
staring at the very top on YouTube. And
the reason being is typically when we
talk about data engineering, data
principles, data readiness, this is
where people fall off and their eyes
glaze over. But to make it work, you
have to make your data work as well.
Now, beneath this beautiful layer, we
have skills, where you have
project-level skills and global skills.
Project are specific to a folder, global
apply to every single project
irrespectively. And then we have one of
the most underutilized and misunderstood
features in something like Claude Code,
which are hooks. And irrespective of who
I speak to, whether it's a business
owner or someone who works in a
business, hooks are this weird innocuous
thing that no one touches. Even though
they're actually very straightforward,
they're very reliable, and they can come
in very handy. And last but not least,
we have the Claude MD, which to many
people is interpreted as a diary, but
it's really an air traffic control
document that you can create a whole
empire of Claude MDs to give the right
information to Claude code at the right
time. And on the right-hand side, we
have all of your integrations. And if
you use something like Claude co-work,
then this is pretty simple to set up.
It's a series of clicks. But if you're
using Claude code, you have to be more
intentional and think, do I need an API?
Do I need a command line interface? Do I
just need a skill? Do I need all of
them? The answer might really depend on
your specific circumstance.
But the real point I want to drive home
is that there are millions of people who
have set up their open claws, and only a
handful of them have derived real
economic ROI from doing so, because
you're building a beautiful home with
fantastic agents on top of burning
rubble. And that rubble comes down to
messy files, gigabytes of completely
dated or useless information, no form of
a business in a box operating system
before this AI stuff even existed. So,
if you layer on sparkly slop on top of a
foundation of slop, all you'll have is
compounded slop. Now, let me give you a
tangible example, so we can put some
color to the problem. Let's say you are
a business owner, a solopreneur, someone
who works in a business and does
reporting, and all you want to do is ask
a very basic question. Let's say you're
an e-commerce, and you want to track the
last 6 months of sales, and you want
Claude code and your team of agents to
derive all the patterns that lead you to
success and tell you when the next event
should be, what the discount should be,
what your perfect avatar should be based
on these 6 months of information.
On the face of it, these models are
advertised as being the silver bullet,
meaning you can feed everything to this
oracle and it will figure it out and
synthesize it. But if you send off your
agents to go pull six months of data,
what will happen is the majority of your
context window in that conversation will
be bloated with a series of JSON and
metadata that's invisible to you, but
necessary to pull if you're pulling this
information. So when it comes to the
actual valuable part, which is the
synthesis, analysis, and the real brain
power that you're seeking, it falls
flat. And the reason why is you're
bloating it with things that don't
matter.
So one of the many ways that you can
solve this is to put a lot of the core
data, the KPIs that need the analysis
part, on a silver platter. So one of the
many ways you could solve this is
through summary files or summary tables,
where you distill the core information,
the core KPIs from each one of those
months. So if you ask your agent to go
do a deep-level analysis, it's actually
spending time analyzing, not retrieving
information and then analyzing. Because
you can imagine if an agent is spending
80% of its session pulling the
information just to be able to start
analyzing it, you'll only get that last
20% of the session, which is usually the
part where hallucinations happen,
slowness happen, and weird behavior
happens, and now you're dedicating it to
do the very task you wanted it to.
Trying to execute this more tactically
is the very reason why I created my
skill/silver
platter. And the way it works is this.
Whether you've never started on your AI
journey or you've already drafted your
operating system and you want to
optimize it, it will take a look at all
the data you have on your computer. So
if you have some form of integrations or
you need it to talk to the cloud, you
would need to make that as a
prerequisite for this to do the analysis
it needs to. Once it has an
understanding and a snapshot of your
data, your Doc Cloud rules, your skills,
your CloudMDs, then it It try to help
you distill what could you summarize?
What could you create summary tables or
summary information to put the
prerequisite information on a silver
platter so that the agents can focus on
the synthesis, not the pulling.
And the end goal is eventually you have
enough agents that are very focused and
you give them all what's called a
critical path, meaning they don't have
to go and figure out every single time
where to look for the data and how to
pull the data and how to analyze the
data and which anomalies to regard and
disregard. They have a good step-by-step
process, an SOP of exactly what the
expected behavior is. And on top of just
having clarity, this skill will also
help output the following HTML page.
This will walk through your specific
systems and files and segment it into
three sections, a pantry, which is where
all of your core services and databases
live, your prep table, what you can
actually do with information, and your
plate, what you can do to actually
tactically put this data to work. And if
you go through the other tabs here, we
have a data flow tab where out of the
box, the skill will break down all the
relationships between your data. So, you
can see how you can interact with it,
where you can interact with it, and how
you can have some cohesion between all
your systems so they can actually speak
to each other.
And if you need suggestions on what you
can build with the current data that you
have, you can have that tab
auto-generated for you. And the final
thing is a 30-day plan. So, this all
comes out of the box from the slash
command that I'm about to show you in a
few minutes. By the way, if you're
finding this content helpful and you
want to take your Agented OS system and
your Claude Code skills, [music] as well
as your AI skills in general, to the
next level, then you're going to want to
check out the first link in the
description below. I keep adding [music]
practical and applicable lessons to our
living Claude Code course and we keep
improving day by day our existing Claude
Claw operating system. So, if you want
the best of both worlds in one place,
then you'll want to check it out.
[music] All right, back to the video.
And like I said before, I've spoken
about hooks on this channel multiple
times. And typically, those videos do
the worst because hooks still break
people's brains. Even though,
fundamentally, a hook is an event that
will always fire at one of 18 plus
events that happen in Claude code. So,
if you start a brand new session, you
can make something happen always in the
beginning of that session. Some
injection of memory. If you have
Obsidian, you can make sure that if
you're in a specific folder and you have
Obsidian files related to litigations,
court cases, anything around revenue in
your business, you could always throw
that in along with the context from your
Claude MD. Similarly, if you have a
longer conversations with your agents
and you find that when the conversation
compacts, you lose a lot of core
information and you have to repeat
yourself. You could use what's called a
post-compaction hook to inject that core
information about you, your business,
what you do, who you are, to make sure
you have a much richer conversation. And
the best part is, you can literally ask
Claude code through the Claude code
guide sub agent to create these hooks
for you. You just have to ask and you
just have to know that you can ask. And
when it comes to things like organizing
your agents, there's a reason why you
typically see the configuration here on
the right-hand side where you have an
orchestrator or a chief of staff
managing the other agents. The reason
being is you can load one agent fully
with the roles, responsibilities, and
the scopes of the sub agents. This will
increase the likelihood that you don't
end up in this scenario where you are
cold starting conversations with your
agent teams having a mismatch or overlap
of which agent should fire at the right
time. Now, instead of just describing
it, let's put this slash command to
work. So, if you go into a terminal and
you use my skill silver platter, what
it's going to do is, if you have
infrastructure that exists, meaning you
have a Claude MD file, you have skills,
you have rules, it will do a quick audit
lasting from 10 to 50 seconds and give
you a quick TLDR of what the current
state of your system looks like. And
once it does the quick audit, it will
say, "Hey, welcome." Walk you through
the mental model of what we're doing
here, and then it will say, "You've
already started building." In my case, I
see a Cloud MD, 38 skills, 16 rules, and
a well-structured output pipeline. And
then you can pick one of two paths.
Obviously, you can take the skill and
edit it to make a medium path if you
need to. One is very thorough, around 30
minutes of interview questions back and
forth. This is really designed for
someone who's starting from scratch or
wants to restart, depending on where you
are in that process. In this case, I
will pick the fast-track option just for
the sake of the video, and then I will
say, "Let's pick the fast-track option,
and please make sure you don't use any
real client names or people names or
deliverable names. Keep it all
anonymized through this process."
So, we'll send this up, and I just said
that to make sure that you can't see
real client names and emails, and this
will come back with a full breakdown of
questions for you. And then it's
designed to pepper you with questions.
So, in this case, it starts off
confirming what I do for a living and
how I make money. In this case, I just
walk through that we are a consultancy,
we have YouTube stuff, we have a
community, we have high-ticket
consulting, and then it asks me
questions like where do I publish and
what products do I have. It's trying to
get a sense for what different APIs and
CLIs could I use for my AIOS. Then asks
me questions about my audience size,
where I have video transcripts for
meetings, workshop materials, if I use
something like Obsidian.
And then it asks me questions about my
paid offers, where I post or host rather
my email list, my audience research, how
I pull my YouTube transcripts, a few
questions about the day-to-day about the
business. Then eventually, it goes to
start creating the data map, as you can
see here. So, if we take a look at the
output, it recommends a series of
different things that we can look to
automate. So, it's very tactical. So, I
can say, "Let's do all in order."
And from that vague prompt, it will hold
your hand to execute each one of these
steps. So, this first one allows you to
drag and drop your raw PDFs,
spreadsheets, email exports into this
data folder. Again, you can go back and
forth and customize this as you wish.
Then it will help you build your morning
brief. Then it will tell you exactly if
you were to put an AI orchestrator for
other agents, what that would look like.
And then as you scroll to the very
bottom, it comes up with a series of
ideas for slash commands. So, in this
case, maybe weekly triage for email,
slash weekly content for my YouTube
funnel, etc.
And the last question it asks you on the
fast track is where do you actually want
to read these briefs? Do you read it in
Gmail? Do you read it on your iPad
through Slack, Telegram? And the reason
it's asking you this is to help you
decide if you set up your own Agenda OS,
do you want to interact with it from
Telegram, from Slack, somewhere else?
It's helping you optimize where your end
usage is going to be.
And once it has that, it starts putting
together your full data map. It creates
the JSON and associated HTML file. So,
this is all out of the box. And by the
end of this, you will have something
like this. So, you have your full audit
and then you can see all of my data
sources. So, YouTube Studio, you have
school, you have Gumroad, you have Kit,
all of these things including my
Obsidian. You can click on them, better
understand exactly the pros and cons. If
it has anything like a skill that you
can install, and you can obviously ask
Claude code or similar to go and search
if you want. And then on top of that,
you have the prep table on how we could
add some automation to looking at things
like monetization.
And then additional things here like an
inbox brief like we saw, a finance brief
every Monday, and it walks you through
what that would look like. And then like
we saw before, we have the full data
flow
where I would end up reading the
majority of my data.
And then if we go to the very top, here
are additional ideas specific for me. So
one example is Friday content brief with
three angle candidates, each backed by
data. And if you scroll down, it walks
you through what the chain could look
like. You have a cron job that spins up
maybe every Friday at 5:00 p.m. And then
you have a chief marketing officer bot
that goes and clusters the signals, etc.
So not only will it help you create the
mental model of how to approach these
problems, but also it will give you the
inspiration on what can be done that's
very tactical.
And again, from a big picture
perspective, we really have four layers.
This number one layer is one of the most
important, where you really establish
your identity, your Cloud MD, any
specific rules if you have GPDR or SOC 2
compliance stuff you have to abide with.
And then the second layer is knowledge.
So knowledge can live in the cloud, it
can live in a drive, it can live in the
form of skills that can access them, or
MCPs, or both. And then you have the
workers, where you would set up your
crystallized, or in this case
materialized, meaning it comes out of
the box. You actually have an agents MD
file with the name of the agent that you
can call on every time. And then this is
where you establish what does it look
like to have your own AI workforce. You
don't want to have agents for the sake
of having agents. You want to hire
agents like someone would hire employees
at a bootstrapped company. You don't
hire five people all at once. You only
hire an agent as you see that there's so
much burden on one particular agent that
it makes sense to naturally split it off
into a separate subject matter expert.
And once you've cleaned all the
skeletons in your closet, you can ascend
to layer four, we can start layering on
things like automations, like the
injections of hooks to really enrich
your conversations and keep things as
deterministic as possible while using a
very chaotic piece of software.
Now to really drive the point home,
let's take three hypothetical scenarios
of three completely different avatars on
how they would implement this exact same
methodology. Let's say we have persona
numero uno, named Marco, and he is a
solo founder of Slab House. He basically
does live streams for mystery boxes, and
he has multiple tiers. There's a very
small tier, there's a whale tier, and
one in between. And his stack is a
combination of Shopify, we have Facebook
ads, we have TikTok, we have Twitch for
the live streams, we have Facebook live,
we have PDFs, and a CSV Empire, which I
know many clients have. Today, he
struggles with things like P&L sheets,
inventory, sales data, and he does this
for 3 hours every single Monday. There
must be a better way, right? Right. We
can get to a place where he can get a
morning brief of his financials, as long
as all of this data lives in a place and
lives in a way that it's easy to be
queried. So, assuming that these are
disparate CSVs that he's pulling
directly from QuickBooks and manually
analyzing, we could actually pull
directly from the QuickBooks API, have
Cloud Code create summary tables, where
depending on the metrics that matter, it
will use Python deterministic, so we're
not risking an AI agent hallucinating.
It will pre-aggregate things like
revenue, cost of goods sold, all those
fancy metrics, and put it into very easy
to read summary tables. Then, when we
have a cron job, or we have something
like an open claw, a cloud claw, a
Hermes agent, whatever, it will be able
to easily read those numbers and report
on them with very minimal chance of
hallucination, because we did all the
hard work for it. We did the 80, and
we're now bringing the agent to actually
look at the information and communicate
trends, go through past versions of our
conversations to look for patterns.
And this is what his data map would look
like, where if you scroll down, these
are the core inputs that we saw before.
And then notice here there's a legend
that says, you have this, either this is
missing, or it'll would be a quick win.
So, if you scroll to the bottom, one
example of something that would be a
quick win is a pre-stream prep brief,
where maybe there's a slash command, and
here's exactly how Claude Code could set
it up for him. And the result is that
his simple questions would now become a
chain of actions, where he could ask a
question like, "Is whale tear worth the
cost of a guaranteed pull?" And then it
would go to the orchestrator, it would
go and talk to the CFO bot, which makes
sense given we have emphasis on
finances, and then it could talk to the
chief marketing officer bot, where it
would look at the customer voice,
analyze different trends, and see how it
would be received by his audience.
Now, let's pivot to Sally, who's an
associate at a small boutique law firm.
And what she works on are small cap
merger and acquisition deals, four to
five new matters a month. A matter's
like a case in the law world, and then
this is her stack. She has Outlook, she
has Bill for Time, which is their
billing system, she has, unfortunately,
Microsoft Copilot, but for Claude Code,
they use Amazon Bedrock because
everything needs to be well controlled
and well contained because it is very
confidential client data. And just like
other law firms, it's very PDF, doc, and
email intensive. And let's say that the
current state is that she spends 3 hours
to go through the matters, scaffold all
the ideas, review and write the briefs,
etc. We could get to the point where we
have a slash command called {slash} case
launch, where it would execute a series
of processes that she could outline in
an SOP that she does over and over
again. Because the real leverage in an
agentic system is that you create a
skill, and you keep iterating on that
skill nonstop. So, a skill is an
infinite game. It's not a finite game.
You don't finish making a skill, you
start a skill, and you keep improving it
over time by going through a
conversation, going through all the
wrong turns, and eventually getting to
the right turn, and then saying, "Based
on all our conversation, I want you to
map out the perfect critical path that
would prevent us from going down the
wrong avenues again." And your eyes
might glaze over as I describe this, but
I'm telling you, this is the difference
between someone who works at 80%
capacity versus 100% capacity. And then
in terms of her report, if you click on
what we'll build and we scroll down and
we go to new matter scaffolding, it
gives you the idea of creating either a
skill, adding a hook as an auto trigger,
but basically creating this specific
chain where she can drop a brand new PDF
as a new client intake. Maybe she runs a
command that's called {slash} new
matter, and this is exactly how it would
launch.
And last but not least, we pivot to Dr.
Sana Anwar, who's working in the
dermatology domain. She does have to
abide also by healthcare data privacy
laws, and then she deals with things
like Athena Health, which is a specific
CRM that's very common in the healthcare
domain. And then she has to deal with
intake forms, EHRs,
which is the basically CRM, and then she
has to process all kinds of biopsies.
In her world, creating the Agendrix OS
is even more complicated because she has
to really bifurcate where all this data
lives. We have data at the clinical
level, and then we have it at the
billing level. Given the constraints of
this domain, you have to be very mindful
about isolating each and every data set
and handling in different ways. So,
unlike a solopreneur, she can't just
tell Claude Code, "Don't make mistakes."
She might need to fully isolate each one
of these data sets and create a unique
set of hooks, Claude MDs, for each and
every domain.
So, her data flow might look very
different from the average person, where
you go from this EHR system to all of
these different prep tables that
processes the data, and you'd have to be
very mindful about how the data is
handled in transit. And obviously, you
get the idea now. So, if we go to what
we could build and we scroll down here,
you can see that we could create these
skills like summarize biopsy PDF, ingest
Athena encounters, care coordinator
orchestrator, etc. And these are an
examples of different rules and hooks
that could be helpful. One really
important thing for her setup are hooks
because she can't risk any form of data
or names being sent to Entropic servers
depending on the situation. At the end
of the day, context is king in this
domain. So, the more context you can
provide and the more cleanly you can
provide it, the higher the likelihood
that when you have an agentic system, if
you want to take your agents on the go
like I do while I'm traveling and have
them actually drive real business value,
all the hard work is in everything that
happens behind the curtain.
So, hopefully this really demystifies
and simplifies what you would have to do
to take [music] your agentic OS setup to
the next level. And like I said, I'm
making the skill I showed you in the
video available to you in the second
[music] link in the description below.
And naturally, if you want to go much
deeper on Claude code and learn while
you build and actually perfect your
agentic OS system, then you want to make
sure you check out the first link in the
description below as we always have up
and coming courses in my living Claude
code course. And on top of that, you'll
be able to take advantage of my Claude
claw business operating system so you
can do the dirty work behind the scenes
and then layer on top a very powerful
[music] agentic system. For the rest of
you, if you found this helpful and
illuminating, I would super appreciate a
like and a comment on the video and I'll
see you in the next one.